#summary Fuzzing trophy case

=american fuzzy lop: vulnerability trophy case=

Although <i>afl-fuzz</i> has a bunch of external users, it is still under active development, and my own experiments are limited to recreational, single-machine, "vanilla" runs against some of the more difficult or better-fuzzed targets - say, IJG jpeg.

So far, this process has yielded in a couple of interesting finds that probably wouldn't be as easy to bump into or isolate with traditional tools:

  * <b><a href='http://seclists.org/fulldisclosure/2013/Nov/83'>CVE-2013-6629</a></b>: JPEG SOS uninitialized memory disclosure in IJG jpeg.

  * <b><a href='http://seclists.org/fulldisclosure/2013/Nov/83'>CVE-2013-6630</a></b>: JPEG DHT uninitialized memory disclosure in libjpeg-turbo.

  * <b><a href='http://lcamtuf.blogspot.com/2014/09/cve-2014-1564-uninitialized-memory-when.html'>CVE-2014-1564</a></b>: GIF-related disclosure of uninitialized memory in Firefox.

  * <b><a href='http://lcamtuf.blogspot.com/2014/10/two-more-browser-memory-disclosure-bugs.html'>CVE-2014-1580</a></b>: `<canvas>`-related use of uninitialized memory in Firefox.

  * <b><a href='https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1094536'>Mozilla bug #1094536</a></b>: BMP-related disclosure of uninitialized memory in Firefox (pending with vendor).

  * <b><a href='http://lcamtuf.blogspot.com/2014/10/bash-bug-how-we-finally-cracked.html'>CVE-2014-6277</a></b>: memory corruption RCE in bash, working around the original "Shellshock" patch.

  * <b><a href='http://lcamtuf.blogspot.com/2014/10/bash-bug-how-we-finally-cracked.html'>CVE-2014-6278</a></b>: command injection RCE in bash, working around the original "Shellshock" patch.

  * <b><a href='https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1050342'>Mozilla bug #1050342</a></b>: Probably libjpeg-turbo related use of uninitialized memory in Firefox (pending with vendor).

  * <b><a href='https://code.google.com/p/chromium/issues/detail?id=398235'>Chrome bug #398235</a></b>: Probably libjpeg-turbo related use of uninitialized memory in Chrome (pending with vendor).

  * <b><a href='http://lcamtuf.blogspot.com/2014/10/two-more-browser-memory-disclosure-bugs.html'>MSRC 0380191</a></b>: apparent JPEG DHT-related use of uninitialized memory in Internet Explorer.

  * <b><a href='http://lcamtuf.blogspot.com/2014/10/psa-dont-run-strings-on-untrusted-files.html'>CVE-2014-8485</a></b>: arbitrary memory write in strings / libbfd.

  * <b><a href='http://openwall.com/lists/oss-security/2014/10/27/4'>CVE-2014-8504</a></b>: stack buffer overflow with strings / libbfd.

  * Several pending issues in compression utilities.

Bugs found by other people include memory corruption issues in GnuPG, <a href='http://www.gnutls.org/security.html#GNUTLS-SA-2014-5'>heap corruption in GnuTLS</a>, buffer overflows in libbfd, and probably quite a few more that I have no idea about.

As the codebase has gotten more mature over the past few months, I've been contemplating setting up afl for continuous fuzzing. So, more probably to come.